co2 is created by every living
thing on the planet but also by
burning fossil fuels which is
causing global warming so what
we just wrapped it all into the
ocean
that would work right
howdy oxygenators trace here for
dnews every breath you take
you'll be exhale and co2 in fact
each exhale contains a hundred
times more co2 than was inhaled
totaling about two pounds of co2
per day per person
carbon dioxide is odorless
colorless highly toxic and
apparently tastes pungent in
acidic because earth is a
relatively closed system carbon
never leaves it gets burned and
then trapped and then breathe
and then reused all over the
planet all over again and again
and again most of us probably
connect co2 with breathing while
we only release pounds per day
industry releases tons and if we
don't capture it the co2 will
continue to exacerbate the
greenhouse effect in 2014 we
were projected to release 37
gigatonnes of carbon dioxide
into the air which is more than
the planet can absorb this is
getting serious
so scientists are working on
ways to filter and trap this
ubiquitous gas in the nineteen
thirties researchers figured out
if you bubble air through a
solution of a derivative of
ammonia calling a mean the co2
will be plucked out scrubbing
the air clean we've since
developed a bunch of other ways
to capture it but in 2014 MIT
developed a super efficient
process using electrochemistry
electricity plus chemistry it's
awesome
the researchers use these a
means to pick up the co2 just
like in the 1930s but they added
a modern twist when you bubble
polluted air through an amine
solution these guys naturally
want to cling to the co2 they
loved it but then electricity
throws copper ions into the mix
and if you're in a mean copper
ions are way more enticing than
co2 so they dropped the toxic
gas like a bad habit and pick up
the copper at that point the
lonely co2 floats out of the
system
yay afterward the copper is
pulled away from the a means to
have to run through that process
again and again and again I sort
of feel bad little hard-working
guys you know but back to the
co2 so now that we filtered it
then what
well because industry faces such
strict penalties for releasing
co2 into the atmosphere they
created carbon capture and
storage technologies essentially
most companies take that
filtered co2 cool it until the
gas becomes a liquid and then
transported somewhere
they can store it there are two
major ways to do this one is
pretty straightforward and the
other one just seems crazy the
straightforward one is called
geologic carbon sequestration in
the states the US Geological
Survey has identified 36
different regions around the
country where the co2 could be
injected into porous areas of
rock between three and 15,000
feet underground and hopefully
there it will stay
the second is the crazy one it's
similar but it's oceanic carbon
sequestration in liquid form co2
is actually denser than water so
theoretically if we just pumped
it under the ocean the water
above it would hold it down like
a big weighted blanket 2013
study and geophysical research
letters look at the viability of
pumping liquid co2 to the bottom
of the ocean and determined it
would form a lake of liquid
carbon dioxide
yeah the lake the high-pressure
cold world of the deep sea would
then hold it in stasis for maybe
a thousand years I know what
you're thinking and yes both of
these ideas have their dangers
for example in geologic
sequestration the pressure of
the rock above should keep the
co2 liquid and it should stay
there should but if the co2 does
find its way out of the rock
global disaster and the undersea
example the implications are
also dangerous
co2 is toxic remember so it
could drastically increase ocean
acidity and deep sea life might
not survive
plus if it did leak out global
catastrophe again
look there's no real permanent
solution to co2 problems except
you know maybe venting it into
space somehow are simply
stopping the release of so much
carbon pollution doesn't just
hurt the planet though it can
also hurt you
check out this video to find out
how smoke is caused by little
particles that float around in
the air
lots of particles wind up at the
airport all sorts of reasons
from house does to dust for
roads and sidewalks to
exhaustively cars and power
plants it affects the body
because many of the particles
are tiny and can accumulate in
your lungs and if you're down to
listen to my weird voice some
more make sure you subscribe to
my podcast on each episode we
take about 45 minutes to dig
into a topic just like here on
dnews but all the way through it
all the way to the brass tacks
here's a taste
by analyzing boron embedded in
limestone from the
permian-triassic period
researchers found
an abrupt shift in ocean pH
levels mph is a measure of acid
versus base and life can only
exist with a nice balance every
time we talk about this stuff i
just kinda like never want to
use fossil fuels again what do
you think you ever feel guilty
about your carbon footprint
tell me about it down in the
comments please subscribe so you
get more dnews from us every
single day and thanks for
watching